♪ MTV ♪
There were people out there.
Where you said
it was safe to train.
I'll make a call.
The mess will be cleaned.
You think you're
the only one with an army?
Well, that's just a little
nibble of what they can do.
[Jimenez] Call me when
you come home, Tommy.
Or maybe I just come find you.
I am planning on stepping back.
I'm making you
Vice President of Operations.
What are your thoughts
on Rebecca?
The way she works
is a liability.
If she negotiates oil leases
like she litigates,
we won't have
any leases to service.
[Ariana] Studying for a test?
- What's the subject?
- Our future.
I can't trust this right now.
Maybe just focus on
your own life for now.
We'll see where this thing goes.
[Hardin] If you're looking for
work, I ain't got none.
If you're looking
to sell me something,
I ain't got no money
to buy it with.
I'm looking to make you money.
How you gonna do that?
[monitors beeping steadily]
[beeping rapidly]
[grunts]
[labored breathing]
[Monty sighs]
[film reel narrator]
Now, the rest of the story.
And to this one,
let's both pay attention.
What gold was in earlier ages
oil is in these days.
Oil is the paramount factor
in the political economies
of the day.
Besides the material ingredients
of petroleum,
there are involved in it
the moral elements of
peace or war
and friendship or antagonism
between races
and nations and creeds.
Oil may soothe
the troubled waters
of the eternal seas,
but it only adds unrest
to the troubled waters
of international diplomacy.
Oil has become the great
international issue of the hour.
It lurks in the background
of virtually every problem
now engaging the attention
of world statesmen.
Politics has become
the politics of petroleum.
Almost no move is made
on that chessboard
that is not tinctured with oil,
including the pending situation
in the near east, all the way
from the Persian Gulf
to the Golden Horn.
But I'm telling you pretty much
what you already know, am I not?
I mean, you know
that we need to conserve.
You know that gas prices
are intolerably high.
You know that oil
and international unrest
are practically synonymous.
Of course, had we only
foreseen this crisis,
we might, by now,
be so much further down
the figurative road on the way
to energy independence.
- ♪ quiet, dramatic music
- [monitor beeping]
***
[Cami speaking indistinctly]
Cami?
[sighs]
- Hey.
- [sighs]
- Alan.
- Tommy.
So, what do we know?
Well, we don't know anything.
Uh, he was already in surgery
when we got here.
Cardiologist said
a dietician found him
on the floor unresponsive.
They got him stabilized,
and here we are.
Nothing to do but wait and pray.
There are some things
we should discuss
if those prayers
aren't answered.
All right.
Well, Monty's will states that,
upon his death
or incapacitation,
you are to be made president,
and facilitate
the sale of the company.
The proceeds are to be split
between a foundation,
which Cami will run,
and a trust,
which you will serve
as executor.
Monty's fighting for his life.
We can look at that later
if he loses,
but right now,
let's focus on the win, okay?
Well, whether he lives or dies,
he is incapacitated.
And there's
a $167 million dollar farm-out
that's waiting to be executed.
He needs
a heart transplant, Tommy.
Is that what they're doing?
[Alan]
Well, they're trying to get him
stable enough to receive one.
They won't risk the organ
on a recipient
that isn't healthy enough
to survive the procedure,
much less the body's reaction
to a foreign organ.
He is already incapacitated,
and he will stay that way
for the foreseeable future.
Will you accept the position
as president of M-TEX Oil
and the family estate?
Yes.
[Alan]
And will you
accept the role
as executor of the family trust?
Yes, but I want a board
with both of you on it.
Yeah, that's fine.
Cami?
Well, what does that mean?
It means you vote
on the decisions I make.
And who else
is on the board besides us?
- Who manages his money?
- Goldman.
Okay, somebody from Goldman.
Okay.
Talk to me about this farm-out.
Well, look, it's...
The lease holder
is over-leveraged
and can't raise the capital.
Field's rich.
We recoup our expenses
before an 80/20 split
that settles at 65/35.
It can be a 10X deal, assuming
we increase our production,
which I believe we can.
What's the worst-case scenario?
Worst case?
Worst case is another COVID
or OPEC floods the market,
oil drops below 60
and puts us out of business
in a year.
Hmm. And what's best case?
$1.2, $1.4 billion dollars
in 48 months.
Or do what Monty would do
and sell the paper for
800 million in six months
and go find the next one.
[scoffs]
Well, there aren't any more
next ones, Tommy.
Can you sell it now?
It's worthless till we drill.
I could blow up the deal,
and then whatever he has now
is what they have going forward.
He set aside for you,
I know he did.
Cami.
You don't need a foundation.
Let's sell this thing now.
Your kids' kids will
never have to work.
And then what? Then what, Tommy?
You know, all he wanted
is to be remembered.
That's it.
Not for the money...
...but for
what we do with the money.
And, yeah...
I-I have enough
to live and live well.
But do I have enough
to make the world remember him?
Well, sell the fucking plane.
You can build a hell of
a high school football stadium.
I don't know
what to tell you, Cami.
I'm sorry.
It's just...
That's what's killing him,
trying to be immortal.
You want it to kill you, too?
You have 200 million bucks
laying around?
No, I don't. [sniffles]
Okay, so we get a loan.
Because of the risk,
it's prohibitive.
That's 12 to 14%
that you have
to personally guarantee.
That means the house
and the ranch
and the place in Aspen,
all that shit.
There's way more oil men
who went bankrupt
than became billionaires.
This is that kind of deal.
[footsteps approaching]
Here comes the doctor.
- Cami?
- Yeah.
Monty suffered
a ruptured aortic aneurysm,
which is a tear
of the aortic wall
which causes internal bleeding
at a very rapid rate.
Because of the size
and nature of the rupture,
we were required
to do open surgery.
We removed the damaged
portion of the aorta.
We replaced it with a graft.
We have him on an extracorporeal
membrane oxygenation machine,
which pumps and oxygenates his
blood while his heart recovers.
At this point,
the best option is a transplant.
Once he's stable enough,
we will seek a donor.
Okay, um... chances?
Wh-What are his chances?
[doctor]
If we can find a donor
in the near future,
the chances are good.
One-year survival rates
are over 70%.
But we are on a clock.
We need the organ
sooner than later.
And how long can he
survive without it?
There's no way to gauge that.
If he can make it two weeks,
I feel pretty good
about our chances.
When can I see him?
Let's get through
the next 24 hours, okay?
If there's any change
in his condition,
I will let you know.
You want to know the last
thing that I said to him?
"You need a shave."
28 years of marriage,
and the last thing
I said to him is
you need a fucking shave.
[sighs]
♪ gentle music ♪
***
♪ percussive music ♪
[phone buzzing]
- Yeah.
- It's gone.
- What did I tell you?
- No.
The whole fucking thing.
The van, the tire tracks, everything.
[sighs]
What did I fucking tell you?
So now what?
Now nothing.
Nothing for you.
I've got two freaked out pilots
and a mortar crew wanting
to call fucking lawyers.
[sighs]
All right, give me two minutes.
[line ringing]
Yeah.
Isn't everything you guys do
supposed to be classified?
What am I, a fucking Navy SEAL?
We're a National Guard unit,
Tommy.
These guys are auto mechanics
and insurance salesmen.
Well, let me tell you something, bud.
They're gonna look
pretty fucking dumb
confessing to a crime
where there's
no fucking evidence
and no fucking witnesses
and, most important,
no fucking victim.
I would suggest that everybody
get amnesia real fucking fast.
We on the same page?
Yeah, I'll talk to 'em.
I recommend it.
Bye.
[sighs]
♪ somber music ♪
***
[sighs]
I want to say something
to you about faith and hope
and all that, but...
...since I don't believe in it,
it's kind of hard to ask you to.
But I will say this.
Monty is the luckiest man
I've ever known in my life.
He wins when everybody,
and I mean everybody, loses.
So if I was still
a betting man...
...I'd bet on him
pulling through.
Still smoking, huh?
You're still a betting man
every day.
Now go and make a bet for me.
Close the farm-out.
And we roll the dice
one last time.
[motorcycle engine revving
in song]
♪ "Girls, Girls, Girls"
by Mötley Crüe ♪
♪ Whoo! ♪
♪ Ha-ha ♪
♪ Mm, mm ♪
[whooping]
***
♪ Friday night ♪
- ♪ And I need a fight
- [whooping]
♪ My motorcycle
and a switchblade knife... ♪
Oh, shit, I forgot.
Here.
- [chuckles]
- Oh.
Load 'em up.
[Ainsley]
That's a lot of 20s.
♪ Girls, girls, girls... ♪
Here, Bob. Here, babe.
- Now we're talking. [chuckles]
- [chuckles]
[Angela]
Oh, no, baby.
Baby, you got to ration it, Bob.
This is all you get.
♪ Girls, girls, girls... ♪
[Ainsley]
What do you think?
[Ethel]
What do I think?
What do I think about these
skinny bitches reminding me
of what I can't do anymore?
What do you think I think?
Well, I have a dancer
for you, too, Ethel.
[scoffs]
Right.
I do.
Well, why are
you hiding him, then?
Okay, just give me a minute.
You're gonna be real excited,
Ethel. [chuckles]
I doubt it.
- [Ethel scoffs, mutters]
- [Ainsley laughs]
Go get him.
[exhales sharply]
This is...
this is...
- this is...
- [Jasmine] First time can be
pretty nerve-racking,
but after that,
it can be really fun.
You should do a shot of vodka.
Loosen the nerves.
It's 11 in the morning.
I have football practice.
- How old are you?
- Does it matter?
State of Texas
is pretty picky about it.
- [sighs]
- Babe.
We need you out there.
It's your time to shine.
There's only 20 minutes before
their nap, so it won't be long.
I-I'm having second thoughts.
But we had a deal.
[sighs]
And you're getting
the better end of it.
Remember,
whatever you do for them,
I do for you.
[chuckles]
[whispering indistinctly]
[chuckles softly]
- [sucks air through teeth]
- You look great.
- It'll be fun. Come on.
- [groans]
[chuckles]
[mutters]
[exhales sharply]
[sighs]
I'm ready.
- [inhales sharply, sighs]
- [slaps thighs]
♪ Girls, girls ♪
♪ Girls ♪
♪ Whoo! ♪
[whispers]
Fuck.
[sighs]
[Koe Wetzel's
"9 Lives (Black Cat)" playing]
***
♪ Here we go ♪
- ♪ There's a storm brewing
- [yawns]
♪ In a pool hall
down in Houston ♪
[exhales sharply]
♪ Where some poor old boy's ♪
♪ About to get his teeth
knocked out ♪
This is the stupidest thing
I've ever done in my life.
♪ In the bathroom,
it was snowing ♪
- ♪ Drip so good
- [groans]
- ♪ It had me choking...
- God, forgive me.
[sighs]
It's for the old folks.
♪ Better watch out ♪
♪ I've got a nine lives ♪
- ♪ State of mind
- [whooping]
♪ Betting it all
with a roll of dice ♪
♪ People seem to lose their luck
when I come around ♪
- [whooping]
- ♪ I've got a 12-pack... ♪
- [Angela] Good Lord, baby.
- [Ainsley] I know.
You better double-bag
that thing.
I'm not changing any diapers.
Don't worry, Mama.
You can't get pregnant
from what I promised.
- [laughing]
- Baby.
- [Ainsley] That's good.
- [Angela chuckles]
Just feel the music.
- Just shake your ass!
- Yeah!
[whooping]
Go earn some money!
♪ Lost the first one
to a dealer ♪
- Whoo!
- ♪ Lost the second one ♪
- ♪ To a preacher
- [screaming]
♪ And three and four ♪
♪ To the twins
that live next door... ♪
Oh! Oh! Oh, Lord have mercy!
No! No! God,
you can't sit on her lap.
You'll break her pelvis, tiger.
I don't know what to do.
Baby,
you just put your foot
on her chair
and you just grind your hips
to the music.
- I can't do that.
- It's not what I heard.
- Not what I heard either.
- I also heard you won't be
doing it anymore
if you don't do it here.
[clicks tongue]
- [Angela chuckles]
- Come on.
Man up.
[screaming, laughing]
[whimpers]
Oh, Lord have mercy!
Lord have mercy!
Go, go, go, go, go!
[laughing]
[laughs]
***
[Angela]
My God.
[Ainsley]
He's really sweet, isn't he?
I mean,
he is a real keeper, baby.
[Ainsley]
He runs a 4.4.
[Angela]
Shit. With that ass,
- I'm not surprised.
- [whooping]
♪ Sailing ♪
♪ Takes me away to where ♪
♪ I've always heard
it could be... ♪
You did a real good thing, Mama.
♪ And the wind to carry me ♪
♪ And soon I will be free... ♪
Feels good, baby.
We should do it again
in a few months.
You say months?
I want to go back tomorrow.
[chuckles]
♪ When I'm sailing ♪
[Margaret]
Hi, everyone have fun?
[Angela]
Wore 'em out.
Good. Ethel, what did you think?
It was great.
It was fucking great.
Fucking great.
- [laughter]
- All right.
Everybody, wake up. Let's start
unloading out the side.
Come on.
Richie, want to give me a hand?
Easily the most immoral
and irresponsible thing
I've ever witnessed in my life.
You need to grow a pair
and get out more.
- Is that what you did? [scoffs]
- Mm-hmm.
Good day, Bob?
She gave me her number.
Leave that with me.
I don't need her taking
your Social Security.
[phone ringing]
[phone chimes]
It's my little trooper.
Boy, do you owe me.
Boy, do I.
Want to come over tonight?
I'll get you paid.
[chuckles]
Is this what it's gonna be like?
- With you? This crazy?
- This is not crazy, baby.
This is free.
Life is a two-minute drill.
Isn't that everyone's
favorite part of the game?
It's mine.
Well...
we just play
the whole game that way.
I'll see you tonight.
All right, I'll see you later.
- Bye.
- [phone chimes]
♪ gentle music ♪
***
[line ringing]
- I figured you'd be calling.
- Where are you?
Irrelevant
and none of your business.
Well, we need to meet,
and it makes it kind of tricky
if you're in Houston.
I'm in town.
How about the Patch at five?
N-No, somewhere private.
Yeah, let's see.
The employee who is convinced
I want him fired
would like to meet alone.
Yeah, that sounds like
a fantastic idea, Tommy.
Pick the dirt road
out in the oil fields
where there's no witnesses
or cell service.
That sounds like
a great fucking idea.
Yeah, well, I'm convinced 'cause
you told me and you told my boss
and you told everybody else
who would fucking listen.
I think the oil field is
exactly where we ought to meet.
[scoffs]
And why is that?
Because you need to renegotiate
a $170 million dollar
farm-out lease,
and I think you need at least
a basic understanding
of what you're renegotiating.
You know what?
Since you know so much,
why don't you renegotiate it?
Two reasons, honey. One, it's
not my fucking job, it's yours.
And two,
the president of the company
needs a buffer in negotiations,
- and you need--
- I don't need a lecture
in negotiating, Tommy.
I have a law degree in it.
And you know what?
Monty already has a buffer.
So get in there
and give it your all.
I'll be there to clean up
the mess when you're done.
[sighs] Monty's not
the president anymore.
I am.
Why are you president?
Because Monty's laid up
in a hospital
waiting for
a fucking heart transplant
that he's not strong enough
to survive,
and the trust
named me president.
And if you don't think
that firing you
is at the top of my to-do list,
then I haven't made
a strong enough impression.
But he sees something in you.
Now's your chance
to let me see it, too.
[sighs]
Why not just fire me
and use Nate?
Because Nate
is a very good lawyer,
and nothing will fuck up
a great deal like a good lawyer.
I need a fucking closer.
I need a killer,
somebody they don't see coming,
and you're certainly that.
Send me a pin,
and I would like to point out,
I am licensed to carry concealed
in this state.
[laughs]
I'd like to point out, Rebecca,
that you don't need a license to
carry concealed in this state.
That's why we all wave at
each other when we're driving.
'Cause everybody's
fucking armed.
I'll send you a pin.
I'll see you there
in three hours.
♪ tense music ♪
[phone whooshes]
[line ringing]
[sighs]
[phone buzzes]
How is he?
He's dying, Nate.
What chances do
the doctors give him?
Well, the crumbs of hope
they drop
are getting smaller,
you know what I mean?
Who takes over?
Me, for now, till it gets sold.
Trust wants to sweeten
the package by moving forward
with the farm-out in Wolfcamp.
What about the workovers
in Sage Creek?
Those go, too.
Tommy, that's 300 million
in capital.
You need a 55% strike
in both to make the nut.
Yep.
So we're just gonna bankrupt
his children with his last deal?
We're not gonna bankrupt anybody
'cause we're gonna strike
a bunch of oil, Nate.
That's not how it works,
and you know it.
You mitigate risk.
Or maximize it in ROI.
That's what we're gonna do.
I'm not sure I can negotiate
that in clean conscience.
You don't have to.
Rebecca's keeping lead on this.
- Rebecca?
- Yeah.
Well, that's just fucking great.
Look, Nate,
I need your help, okay?
She can swing the numbers,
but she can't paper it.
We'll figure out the hierarchy
after all this shit's over,
but I need the two of you
at the table in the morning.
Explain the need to rush.
Well, probate court
pauses all future operations
for a year or longer.
How's that for a reason?
Look, I don't think
it's right either, Nate,
but that's what
Cami asked me to do,
so that means that's what
Monty told her to do,
so that's what we do.
You're asking me to swallow
a lot of pride, Tommy.
I need it, Nate.
[sighs]
All right.
You got it.
Okay.
Well, you and Dale meet me
at the transfer station
at Reagan at five, okay?
Will do.
[sighs]
[sinister ringtone playing]
Oh, fuck.
- Hey, baby.
- Oh, my God! It was so fun.
Hi, Daddy!
[Angela]
Say hi to your baby.
- [Ainsley] Hi.
- [sighs] Jesus, God,
that's a lot of estrogen, girls.
Hey, baby, let's not yell
at Daddy, okay?
They loved it. Loved it.
They had so much fun that
we're gonna bring 'em back.
Mm-hmm. And everyone at the
strip club was so nice to us.
- They were so nice. I know.
- Amazing.
Oh, so you did do that.
Oh, okay.
Well, I guess I'm glad
they had a good time.
[Angela sighs]
Oh, God.
[stammers]
You know, well,
we got to celebrate.
What time you gonna be home?
It's gonna be late.
Dad, can you come home
early tonight?
- How late?
- Please?
- It's gonna be really late, hon.
- [Angela chuckles]
You're no fun. None.
You're just
a grumpy little stinker.
- [blows raspberry]
- Grumpy.
Grumper.
- [Angela and Ainsley laugh]
- Listen, Angela.
Monty's not gonna make it.
I don't think
he's gonna make it.
[sighs]
Aw, honey, I'm so sorry.
Are you okay?
Yeah. Yeah.
What does that mean
for you, babe?
I mean, do you have to look
for a job, or...?
Well, sweetheart,
men die,
oil companies don't die.
My job ain't going anywhere.
We are here for anything
that you need, okay? Anything.
- Okay, honey.
- We love you.
[Angela]
I love you.
I love you, too, baby.
Talk to you girls later.
♪ solemn music ♪
***
♪ somber music ♪
[sniffles]
***
[closes photo album]
[sniffles softly]
[Swensen]
Used to be I could run...
aw, hell, I could run 300
wheat steers on this pasture.
But with the cost
of feed and fertilizer
and drought after drought,
wheat steers at...
well, hell, they're running 228,
ain't been weaned.
[chuckles]
I got to straighten 'em out.
How the hell am I gonna do
all that and make any money?
Solar company'll pay me
800 an acre.
That's $200,000...
every year.
[laughs]
And that's a straight
per-acre lease?
Well, it's based on
a certain amount of kilowatts.
Well, you need the sun
to shine for those.
[chuckles]
The sun shining ain't a problem.
Every day. No clouds, no rain.
God forbid if it hails.
I didn't think of the hail.
They did.
You've got 54 wells
on this property.
Only six produce.
And, hell, none of 'em pump more
than ten or 12 barrels a day.
And I'm 18% of that.
This area is all played out.
For these little
grasshopper pumps, it is.
But they don't go
down 2,000 feet.
They're sucking on a leak.
The shale is 7,000
to 10,000 feet down.
I know,
but ain't nobody gonna invest
in swapping wells
and drilling for 54 wells.
Hell, most of these leases
is expired.
[chuckles, sighs]
I'm sitting on a stack
of minerals
I can't sell
for the paper they're on.
- [chuckles]
- I can.
How you gonna do that?
[Cooper sighs]
This is 377 on 11,000 acres.
Put together 50 acres at a time.
Seven largest are
in the same situation as you.
Four of 'em
have already committed.
But your royalty rate
is not 18% anymore.
It's 25.
Now,
you can wreck that wheat field,
hope to make 200 a year,
or we can rework these wells,
and I can pay you that a month.
You run all the cattle you want.
Who cares what they cost?
That's how it was in the '70s.
- [chuckles]
- Well, power's in the numbers.
A group of small producers
become a big producer.
And just how much
of my 25 do you take?
Not a dime.
You're signing the lease to me,
I'm selling it to them.
Oil company pays me, not you.
That helps you,
and it helps your neighbor.
That's where I'm going next.
What do I got to do?
Just sign the lease.
Then you ain't got
to do nothing.
Neither do your kids
or their kids.
[Swensen scoffs]
Well, they got to do something.
I don't need 'em
hanging around here.
Well, dig 'em a pool.
Let 'em splash around in that.
[scoffs]
A swimming pool?
In Garza County?
[chuckles]
Wouldn't that be something?
[paper rustling]
Lord help me.
[chuckles]
Well, Cooper,
nice doing business with you.
Thank you very much,
Mr. Swensen.
You won't regret it.
[Swensen]
I hope not.
♪ gentle, atmospheric music ♪
***
[Tommy]
They've been pumping oil
out of this ground
since the '20s.
Then, in the '80s,
it started drying up.
By the '90s
it's pretty well played out.
This is a shale. It goes all
the way from here to Midland.
So just imagine
layer after layer of solid rock
slapped on top of one another
like slices of bread.
And between the slices,
well, that's your butter.
Just figured that out
a few years ago.
Now, Chevron spent
$53 billion dollars
to buy a drilling company
to get it out.
So we can assume the leases
on 400 wells,
but we're gonna have
to drill horizontal
and we're gonna have
to frack it.
A deal like that's called
a farm-out.
So, we have access to 400 wells.
But it's gonna cost between
11 and 18 million dollars
for each well.
We agreed to the first nine.
That's $162 million dollars.
Now, if we hit
on the first four,
that means we're obligated
to drill nine more.
If we hit on four more,
then we're committed to 27.
You see where
I'm going with that?
- I do.
- Our deal
is that we recoup
on strikes to 120%
and then
we start revenue sharing.
It's a pretty good deal
when it's two percent interest.
But at 12%,
we're bankrupt in a month
if it turns out
the first nine are dry holes.
Okay, so what do you want
from me?
Well, each strike has
to pay for itself
and then it has to pay
for the next one.
So we got to get ahead
of the bank.
You have to make a deal
that pays for the whole thing
on the first home run.
Now, Nate here is gonna
take you through the numbers.
Dale will take you
through the science.
By tomorrow
you'll be a damn expert.
Why new pumps?
What's wrong with these?
You mean "wells."
Too shallow.
Well, how deep do they need
to be?
- Dale?
- [Dale] Ah,
between 10,000 and 13,000 feet.
But you got
to drill at an angle,
- and then you got to frack it.
- Frack it.
You shoot a shit ton
of salt water downhole,
and you squeeze all that oil out
of the fractures,
then you pump it up,
separate the water.
Technology...
it changed the game out here.
Yeah, isn't this the technology
that's causing earthquakes
in Oklahoma?
There were earthquakes
in Oklahoma
- before fracking, ma'am.
- Okay.
- Jesus Christ.
- Tommy!
- Yeah?
- Look.
[chuckles]
You understand,
I don't think anyone should be
doing this, all right?
I think it should be illegal.
Well, then,
you should've run for Congress
instead of getting a job
with an oil company.
I just...
I have a very hard time
advocating for something
I believe is wrong.
Says the lawyer.
Good and bad
don't factor into this, Rebecca.
Our great-grandparents
built a world
that runs
on this shit right here.
Until it starts running
on something else,
we got to feed it,
or the world stops.
[truck door opens]
[engine starts]
[Tommy]
Hey.
There is an alternative.
You can throw your phone away
and trade that Mercedes in
for a bicycle or a horse and
start hunting for your own food
and living in a tent,
but you'll be the only one
and it won't make a damn bit
of difference.
Plus I hear the moral high
ground gets real windy at night.
***
♪ pulsing, suspenseful music ♪
[engine revs]
[truck doors open]
You were supposed to call me.
It's been one of those days.
I know those days.
You've given me a few.
There's something
I want to show you.
All right, I'll follow you.
How about you ride with me?
How about I follow you?
[grunting]
- [truck door opens]
- [Tommy groans]
[engine starts]
[tires squealing]
[Tommy groaning]
It's quite the view out here.
You bring me
to the nicest places.
[Jimenez scoffs]
You think
oil companies are so strong,
that you can do
anything anywhere.
[scoffs]
I looked it up.
We make more money than you.
Than all of you.
You sell your product
for three dollars a gallon.
A gallon of our product sells
for thousands,
and we can't make enough.
[grunts]
You have an army.
We have an army.
- [groans]
- You blow things up.
We do, too.
[groans]
[snaps fingers]
[metallic creaking]
That tank has a sensor
to trigger an alarm.
One goes to the fire department,
one goes to headquarters.
Helicopters will get here first.
And when they put it out,
which will take about a day,
fucking Railroad Commission
and OSHA will be crawling
over this fucking place
like fucking ants.
And since
they're explosives experts,
they'll know exactly
what this is.
And you know who's gonna
climb over this site next?
Congratulations, dude.
You just shut yourself down.
Did you run this by the boss?
Yeah, I didn't think so.
[both grunt]
[Tommy sighs]
En este lado del río,
I'm the fucking boss.
[scoffs]
If you're trying to send
a message, message received.
Wait till you see
what we do with it.
That's not the message.
That's the warning.
You're the message.
Saca la bolsa.
[Tommy groans]
♪ tense, suspenseful music ♪
***
[Tommy groans]
[engines start]
♪ somber music ♪
***
[sniffles]
[crying]
[hyperventilating]
- [vehicle approaching]
- [panting]
[dog barking]
[gasps]
Fuck.
[sniffles]
[crying]
Hey, Jefe.
Ariana?
[crying]
Fuck.
[sighs]
[grunts]
[cries]
Hey.
- I'll be out in a minute.
- Sorry.
Guess we haven't reached
the "barge in the bathroom"
- part of the relationship.
- And we never will.
A girl needs a certain amount
of mystery.
Fair enough.
[sighs]
[pants]
[Jefe panting]
♪ gentle music ♪
***
Hey.
Tough day?
Very.
I'm sorry.
Me, too.
This is too soon, isn't it?
Yeah.
Should I leave?
I didn't say leave.
I'm not trying
to replace him, Ariana.
Yes, you are,
and I'm letting you.
I'm letting you fill that place
in my heart.
[inhales sharply]
But to let you in, I...
I need to move him out,
which means saying goodbye.
Even though
he's already gone, I...
...have to say goodbye
in my heart.
What can I do to help?
I don't know.
[sniffles]
I've never done this before.
Where was this?
On Brazos.
It's a nice boat.
Luis bought it.
And then the crash of 2020.
Then he sold it.
But it was fun, fast.
Where was the wedding?
San Antonio.
You ever been?
I think maybe
the most magical city
in the world.
River weaves
through the middle of it
like someplace in Italy.
[both chuckle softly]
You look beautiful.
Yeah, well,
that was a baby
and a thousand heartaches ago.
I was the baby then.
[chuckles]
He's being a better sport
about that than I would've been.
Hey, if you're lucky enough
to have a reception with me,
I will put the cake
wherever I want
and you will say "Thank you."
Yes, ma'am. Thank you.
That's right.
Start practicing now.
[laughs]
You two were a beautiful couple.
Thank you.
You were.
For this.
Thank you.
I'll walk through every memory
with you, if you want.
Every one.
I do.
Oh, wow.
- Okay, give me that.
- No.
- I think I like this one.
- Okay, Cooper, no.
- No, this is my favorite.
- No.
- Just give me.
- This one's the best.
- Cooper! [laughs]
- [groans]
[Dale sighs]
Yeah?
- Hello, sir. Is Ainsley here?
- You don't know?
Don't know... what?
If she's here.
I sure hope she's here.
Yeah, but you don't know.
[sniffles]
So you just decided
to fucking drop by.
- Yeah, she told me to swing by.
- Oh, so you do know she's here.
Unless she left.
Why would she leave
if she told you to come over?
[sighs]
Sir, I-I don't know what--
Look, if you know she's here,
just say
"I would like to see Ainsley"
or "May I see Ainsley?"
It makes no fucking sense
to ask if she's here.
You know she's here.
I know she's here.
Everyone in this fucking house
knows she's here.
Now what you gonna do?
What you gonna do, boy?
[laughing]
I'm just fucking with you.
Come on. Come on in.
It's all right.
Your fucking face. "Ooh."
[sighs]
[spoon clinking]
- Evening, Mrs. Norris.
- Hello, Ryder.
- What you making?
- Oh, I'm just clarifying butter.
Well, that smells amazing.
I could eat a whole bowl of it.
If you did, you wouldn't have
that little peanut-butt
- for long.
- [spoon clinking]
She's upstairs.
Thank you.
[spoon clinking]
[Ainsley]
It's open.
Close the door.
See the chair
beneath the lights?
Yeah?
Sit.
[Ryder sighs]
You're gonna want
to take off that itchy shirt.
Doesn't itch.
You take it off.
[sighs]
And the boots?
There's no reason to stop there.
- Are you done?
- Yeah.
[sighs]
I went to the trouble
of wrapping your present.
I think I love you.
You think?
I know.
That's better.
What you did
for those old folks,
it meant the world to them.
[Tanner Usrey's "Destiny"
playing]
Meant the world to me.
I can do it again, you know.
Whatever you need.
I might take you up on that.
♪ Where the boys in the corner
keep on staring me down... ♪
Deal's a deal.
♪ And ain't nothing make me feel
the way that I feel with you ♪
♪ You're my destiny ♪
♪ Oh, my destiny... ♪
Unwrap me.
***
[Alex Arellano's "El Gato Negro"
playing inside]
[man singing in Spanish]
[lively chatter]
***
[door closes]
You probably think
I have your head covered
so you don't know where you are.
I don't care if you know.
Because you won't live to tell
anyone what you saw anyway.
[sighs]
Your army,
your special forces
trained Mexico's policía
to combat the cartels.
Taught us all sorts of tricks.
This is one of them.
I take away one of your senses,
and it magnifies the others.
Like sound.
[whistling]
- [grunts]
- [groaning]
¿Ves?
And everything is a surprise.
All this pain magnified,
because I took your sight.
When someone is truly terrified,
they lose feeling.
They may scream in horror
when you slice
into their stomach,
but they can't feel it.
No.
The shock of seeing it,
nah, it's too much.
But when you can't see...
ah...
...then you feel everything.
[Tommy screams]
[groaning]
Eso. You scream.
From the pain, not the horror.
I can make this last all night,
and I will.
[Tommy] How much product
did you fucking lose?
What's the number you need, motherfucker?
No, you had your chance
to negotiate.
That's not why you're here.
You're here so the one
who replaces you takes
- the chance when he has it.
- [snaps fingers]
♪ soft, eerie music ♪
[gasoline sloshing]
[Tommy groans]
Oh, goddamn it!
Motherfucker. Fuck you!
Fucking light me on fire,
you goddamn cocksucker.
Fuck you!
- Fuck me, huh?
- Yeah, fuck you.
Okay.
Okay, Tommy.
Son of a...
- No. I think...
- [coughing]
...fuck you.
- Fuck you, Tommy!
- [yelling] Oh, God!
[yells, coughs]
[groaning]
[coughing]
[sighs]
Listo.
Más temprano,
cuando está más tranquilo.
Mueve la van atras.
Cerca de las puertas.
One flick of this
and it's goodbye to you...
...pinche Tommy.
[crickets chirping]
[man speaking indistinctly
on TV]
[footsteps approaching]
You heard from Tommy?
[grunts]
Uh...
No.
Hmm.
[sets phone down]
He's not answering my calls.
Did he, uh...
did he go back to Fort Worth?
[sniffs, clears throat]
'Cause you can't use a cell
in the ICU.
Maybe that's it.
Mm-hmm.
♪ ominous music ♪
***
[grunts]
[sniffles]
What's wrong?
Nothing.
[sniffles]
I'm happy.
You sure don't sound happy.
Have you ever done this before?
I'd done about half of it.
I'd barely even thought
of the other half.
I mean like-like this.
[sniffles]
Sleeping together.
No.
Never.
Me neither.
[sniffles]
Will you stay?
The night?
[sighs]
Your dad will kill me.
I won't let him.
Ainsley, he will kick
the shit out of me.
[sniffles, chuckles]
That's a possibility.
[sniffles]
Please.
I don't want to be alone.
[sighs, inhales deeply]
I'll take my chances.
♪ gentle music ♪
***
[breathing heavily]
[grunting]
[panting]
Hey.
- Huevón.
- [door opens]
- Levántate.
- [groans]
- [door closes]
- [grunts]
Estamos cerrado.
Bueno.
-¿Hay gente afuera?
- Sí.
Pero están saliendo.
¿No quieres una pistola?
No.
Es un cuchillo para este joto.
- [gunshots]
- [thudding]
¡Vamos, vamos, vamos,
vamos, vamos!
[men shouting in Spanish]
♪ low, tense music ♪
***
- [gunshots]
- [thudding]
- [indistinct shouting]
- [gunshots]
- [groaning]
- [thudding]
[gunshots]
- [groaning]
- [glass shattering]
[Tommy breathing heavily]
***
[gunshots]
- [man groans]
- [Tommy gasps]
[gunshots]
[Tommy breathing heavily]
***
[footsteps approaching]
[breathing heavily]
[Tommy shuddering]
[Gallino]
Knock, knock.
Suéltalo.
[knife opens]
[snips]
Córtalo, coño.
Córtalo.
[hisses]
[groans]
[sighs]
[clinks]
I'd offer you one, but
I'm not sure it's a good idea.
That's all right.
I'll take my chances.
***
Be careful now.
[lighter clicks shut]
You good?
Yeah, I'm just fucking dandy.
You will be.
Jimenez, he did not understand
what I understand.
Which is that we must coexist.
There are times
where you lose things--
trucks, planes--
and there are times
I lose things--
trucks, planes, merchandise.
That's just business.
So...
...how do we get back
to where it was
so we can...
so we can coexist?
Well,
you understand,
above everything else...
...nobody can escalate this
higher than we can.
And I'm guessing you know that.
Otherwise you wouldn't be here.
So...
you want to go back...
...stay out of our fucking way.
Or I go sit with every CEO
of every oil company
in the Permian Basin
and we build the DEA
a fucking city.
For free.
It ain't nothing for us to throw
ten or 20 billion dollars
at a problem.
Nothing.
Now, you got a couple
of sheriffs and some judges
and some mayors
along the border there.
We've got ex-presidents
on our boards.
- And senators.
- Mm.
Hell, Chevron named
a fucking oil tanker
after Condoleezza Rice.
Here's the thing.
You have no idea
who you're fucking with.
And if you kill me
and hang me
off a goddamn bridge,
guess what happens next.
We blow up the fucking bridge.
We're the last bear
you want to poke, bud,
because we have unlimited funds
and unlimited connections.
[Gallino]
We have...
we have the same senators,
my friend,
the same presidents,
and we have the same enemies.
You and I have the same enemies.
And there's nothing
that you have that I don't have.
And, well, you don't want
the world to know
how you make
the thing you sell...
...and I don't want the world to
know how I do the thing I sell.
The world is a better place
if we are friends.
I get that.
But we ain't ever gonna be
friends.
What's that?
We ain't ever gonna be friends.
Oh, yeah,
we're gonna be friends.
Yeah, we'll see about that.
You need to avoid us
like the goddamn plague
and we'll do the same.
And if our paths ever do cross,
then everybody's
gonna be real friendly
and everybody's gonna be
real forgiving.
Well, that's advice
we both should take.
- It's a good start. Mm.
- [phone buzzing]
Mm. Police chief.
We should go.
The police are here.
Vamos a irnos
para afuera por atrás.
Go on. We should go.
Come on. Okay.
[strains]
[groans]
Oh, this way.
- Going out the back.
- [door opens]
[Tommy groans softly]
Hold on, hold on.
Wait for me, amigo.
I got you. Watch your step here.
[Tommy groaning]
-¿Estamos bien?
- [man] Todo bien.
- Watch your step.
- [grunts]
- You got a cell phone?
- Yeah.
Call somebody you trust.
Tell them to bring you
some clothes.
You can't walk out of here
like that.
***
[Gallino]
One more.
Okay, there's
a washroom up here.
[Tommy grunts]
Make sure it's clear.
Yeah, we're good.
All right. Right there.
You know
we own land where you drill.
Yeah.
There's no money
in that land, though.
[exhales]
Money's beneath the surface.
I'd like to talk to you about
that when you have some time.
I'll make the time.
There you go.
Who says we can't be friends?
We make enough money,
we're gonna be
real good friends.
There's no future
in the product you sell.
I'm more curious about
the product you sell.
[exhales] Mine's running out
of future, too.
Maybe so, but there's
still some future left.
Washroom's in the back.
Call your friend.
Stay here till he comes.
Vámonos.
Let's go.
Here.
Keep the smokes.
I'd give you my lighter, but...
...belonged to my father.
♪ slow, ominous music ♪
***
[train whistle blowing]
[groans]
Hey, I'm gonna send you a pin.
Come pick me up.
***
There ain't gonna be
no hiding that shiner.
I'll just tell her
I had a car wreck.
You need to go
to the hospital for your leg.
No fucking telling
what was on that thing.
[coughs] Oh, I'm not going
to the fucking hospital.
Well, I'm just saying,
think about--
D-Dale, I'm not going
to the fucking hospital.
Fine, I'll shut up.
[exhales]
Let me at least get you a doctor
to meet you at the camp
in the afternoon.
Let me do that for you, Tommy.
And tell him what?
Tell him...
tell him that you shot yourself
with a nail gun
while you was building
a fucking sundeck.
- I don't know.
- [both laugh]
- I don't fucking...
- [coughing]
You all right?
[groans]
Take it easy, take it easy.
How are you, uh...
...how are you doing,
you know, up here?
[lighter clicks]
What?
You mean mentally?
Yeah, something like that. Sure.
[sighs]
I think I'm gonna
start drinking again.
♪ slow, atmospheric music ♪
***
[scoffs]
[chuckles]
[train whistle blows]
***
[Angela]
Why you sleeping on the couch?
I didn't want
to wake you up, honey.
What happened to your face?
I had a car wreck.
Bullshit.
You would've called me
if you had a car wreck.
- Sit down.
- Don't tell me what to do.
Oh, honey,
please just sit down beside me.
[groans]
This better be fucking good.
Honey?
There are gonna be things
that I can't tell you.
That you can't tell me?
Just trust me.
One thing I can tell you...
...is that my whole life
passed before my eyes...
[Angela sighs]
...and all I saw was you.
I'm-a make you breakfast.
- Oh.
- You hungry?
[chuckles]
No, babe.
Blueberry pancakes.
Does that sound good?
[chuckles]
Okay.
That sounds great.
♪ somber music ♪
***
[Angela sniffles]
[sighs]
[crying]
[sniffles]
[clears throat]
- [groaning]
- [clattering]
- Morning, Daddy.
- Oh.
Morning, baby.
Morning, sir.
[sighs]
I don't have
the fucking energy for this.
[indistinct chatter]
♪ slow, eerie music ♪
***
You better run, buddy.
They kill coyotes around here.
♪ slow, eerie music ♪
***